# Cycle-Share-System--Complex-Networks-Project

# Bicycle Trip Data from Seattle's Cycle Share System

The Pronto Cycle Share system consists of 500 bikes and 54 stations located in Seattle. Pronto provides open data on individual trips and stations.

In this project, the city bike system will be analyzed as a complex network with NetworkX package and other mathematical tools.

Within the context of transportation, the term network refers to the framework of routes within a system of locations, identified as nodes. A route is a single link between two nodes that are part of a larger network.

It is crucial to highlight that edges of the city bike network are not predetermined, they are generated by the users. Thus, the structure of the network emerges from the flow of people through the city. Reoccurring trips made by the residents gradually formulate usage patterns and create the structure of the bike-sharing network. This information, in turn, can be used in a feedback loop for the evolution of the network. Rising or decreasing bike demand can provide insights into wider sociological, economical and geographic factors in certain areas.

**Content**

There are 2 datasets that provide data on the stations and trips from 2014-2016.

1. Station dataset
* station_id: station ID number
* name: name of station
* lat: station latitude
* long: station longitude

2. Trip dataset
* trip_id: numeric ID of bike trip taken
* bikeid: ID attached to each bike
* trip_duration: time of trip in seconds
* from_station_name: name of station where trip originated
* to_station_name: name of station where trip terminated
* from_station_id: ID of station where trip originated
* to_station_id: ID of station where trip terminated
